The services in AWS are grouped into domains. In the AWS Console, you can
see how they've grouped them by the application concern each deals with.
Some examples are compute storage and database.
Because there are quite a few services, it helps to group them
conceptually and provide some context to each.
In this clip,
we're going to talk through each AWS domain to help you
understand what each one contains.
The first and sort of the most important domain is compute.
This domain is for services that assist in
executing custom code that you provide.
Some examples are EC2 instances or Lambda. Even though there are
several different service is in this domain,
all of them ultimately run on EC2 instances under the hood.
The main differentiator for each is the level of
abstraction and automation the service provides.
Storage is another important domain that focuses on storing
different types of data for retrieval at a later time.
Specifically, this is going to be file system like storage.
We're not talking about databases or cache here. S3 is the
perfect example service for this domain, which is used to
store just about anything these days.
The next domain is database, and it's pretty self‑explanatory.
This domain includes managed SQL databases with Relational
Database Service and NoSQL data stores with DynamoDB.
ElastiCache is also included in this domain, even though it may be
debatable whether it can be classified as a true database.
Network and content delivery is a hugely important domain
that is often hidden under the covers.
The networking concerns of this domain manage how external users
access and interact with your application,
as well as how internal AWS resources interact with each other.
CloudFront rounds out the content delivery aspect of this domain,
providing your applications with a high quality CDN end to get your content to
users faster than you may ever need to. The developer tools domain is full of
services dedicated to the development process,
such as source control and continuous integration.
These services aren't for users to interact with,
but really are focused on the developer experience side of AWS.
Using these are optional though. So don't feel like you need to use
any of these developer tools services if you're developing on AWS.
Services that focus on the service management side are in the
management and governance domain.
These services focus on the creation and management of other services in AWS.
A lot of these services are used more by DevOps engineers,
but we will be using CloudWatch in this course.
The security,
identity, and compliance domain contains services that deal with
managing secure access to your AWS account and individual services. IAM
is the main service here as it manages and provides the policies that
affect nearly every service in AWS.
The analytics domain focuses on service is that allow you
to consume and process data in different ways from
services like Elastic Map Reduce,
which lets you process big data to the Kinesis service, which
provides streams that facilitate data transfer.
Any service focusing on dealing with internal data can be found here.
The last domain we'll talk about is application integration,
which is for services that provide integrations between
other services in AWS. For instance,
services like Simple Notification Service and Simple Queue
Service provides ways for applications and services to
communicate with each other inside AWS.
Simple workflow and step functions give developers ways to orchestrate
applications inside AWS, and those are all the main AWS domains.
There are a few more,
but their relevance to this course and likely your job are
minor enough that I'm leaving them out here.
Now that you understand the AWS domains,
keep them in mind when you're looking for a solution in
your application. There may be a cool new service in a
domain that you're concerned with, and it might just be the perfect solution for your problem.